# Olag, the god-suzerain
Olag is the god of Craftsmanship and Conquest. Perhaps the most important figure in history, the illuminant was the suzerain of the [Seven Princedoms of the Sea](../../history.md#age-of-winter), moving civilization out of the [Age of Winter](../../history.md#age-of-winter) and into the [Age of Spring](../../history.md#age-of-spring).

Olag was a dark-skinned Et-born [gat](../../kins/hume.md#gat-culture) with snow-white hair. They were larger in stature and bulkier in frame than the average hume, resembling a treb gat. They had two large horn similar to those of a stag, which grew across the illuminant's centuries of life, reaching a stunning size by the end of their time.

In life, Olag was an [Et-born](../../kins/hume.md#gat-culture) that spawned after the [Schism](../../history.md#war-of-autumn) as one of the last of their kind. In their youth, they unified the [humes](../../kins/hume.md) scattered during the [40-year Famine](../../history.md#age-of-winter) and established the kingdom of Vamerit<!--TODO:LINK---> near the charred remains of [Et](../godtrees/et.md), placing themself as its regent. Hunger and sickness were rampant during Vamerit's early years, but this period of history was quickly left behind under the gat's guidance.

After founding the city of Naptane<!--TODO:LINK---> in 96 A.S., the neighboring tribes took notice of Olag's reign. While some reacted with respect for Et and swore fealty to the Et-born, many feared the unification brought by them and attacked the young empire, sparking the [100-year War](../../history.md#age-of-winter). Through both bargain and warfare, the gat united each kingdom, city-state, and tribe in the Horned Shores<!--TODO:LINK---> under their banner. By the end of the war, they established the Seven Princedoms of the Sea, keeping Naptane as its capital. [Vahan](../mevic_gods/vahan.md) himself attended the coronation ceremony, ascending them into the first illuminant and bestowing the title of god-suzerain, and thus commenced the Age of Spring.

During this age, Olag expanded continued to expand their reign further and further south, reaching the Chirping Wilds<!--TODO:LINK---> in its maximum extension. In this process, they fought many wars, established commerce thorough all of the continent, and established [Tanethism](../index.md) as the only religion in the empire. A sculptor themself, the gat scattered statues of their visage across all of the empire, reminding the people of who their emperor was.

While the imperial goals of the god-suzerain were fruitful for the most part, they strained the core of the empire. The protected princes protested and some, upon having their demands ignored, rebelled. While most of these were kept under control, the princedom of Xarxage refused to be silenced. As the years passed, The illuminant became more and more desperate, and ultimately, in 620 A.S., called on the signature of the all-storm, once used by Pheter to strike down Et, to destroy the princedom's capital, Alagias<!--TODO:LINK--->.

This act caused Xarxage to descend into anarchy, and quelled the revolution in all princedoms. Olag's reign, once sustained through respect and strength, now existed only due to the fear of what the god-suzerain was capable of. Less than a year later, however, an unknown assassin somehow sneaked into the their bedroom, cutting this dreadful empire short with the pierce of a knife. This event is known as the [Night of the Fourth Color](../../history.md#age-of-spring), and marks the end of the [Age of Spring](../../history.md#age-of-spring). While the murderer was never caught, they themself became an illuminant, ascended by Fusine.

Olag's death, as deserved as it was, was still a shock to the world. It led to the collapse of the princedoms, as the old structures of power could not be sustained without their figurehead. The only thing that remains of the god-suzerain now are their derelict statues, crumbling and mossy.
